K8S Quickstart Guide (#67)
pomerium/documentation: content/docs/k8s/quickstart.mdx

---
title: Kubernetes Quickstart
sidebar_label: Quickstart
lang: en-US
keywords: [pomerium, identity access proxy, oidc, kubernetes, kustomize, reverse proxy, ingress controller, k8s]
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';
import InstallMkcert from '@site/content/_install-mkcert.md'
import PomeriumCerts from '@site/content/examples/kubernetes/pomerium-certificates.yaml.md'
import PomeriumValues from '@site/content/examples/kubernetes/pomerium-values.yaml.md'
import ExampleIngress from '@site/content/examples/kubernetes/example-ingress.yaml.md'

This quick-start will show you how to deploy Pomerium with [Kubernetes].

## Prerequisites

- [Install kubectl].
- A Kubernetes provider.
  - A cluster, with your local `kubectl` authorized to interact with it. The cluster configuration and node pool will depend on your provider and the scope of your project.
  - Export the configuration file from your Kubernetes host and export it to your `KUBECONFIG` environment variable (usually by placing it in `~/.kube`).

    See [Organizing Cluster Access Using kubeconfig Files] for more information.

>   - A namespace in the cluster for Pomerium. This document assumes the namespace `pomerium`, which you can create with `kubectl create namespace pomerium`.

Author: The order of operations for this page has us first create and import a certificate into the namespace, before deploying Pomerium. So either we need to create the namespace first, or we should apply the deployment first.

>   - A namespace in the cluster for Pomerium. This document assumes the namespace `pomerium`, which you can create with `kubectl create namespace pomerium`.

Reviewer: we may first deploy and then apply certs.

>   - A namespace in the cluster for Pomerium. This document assumes the namespace `pomerium`, which you can create with `kubectl create namespace pomerium`.

Author: Adjusted the OOP

- A configured [identity provider].
- A domain space. The steps below use `*.localhost.pomerium.io` as a placeholder value. We have set DNS records for this domain space to point to `127.0.0.1` (localhost), so you can use this domain space when testing Pomerium locally.
- [TLS certificates]. If you don't yet have a production environment with trusted certificates, this page will cover using [mkcert] to create locally trusted certificates.

## Certificates

This setup uses [mkcert] to generate certificates that are trusted by your local web browser for testing. If you already have a certificate solution, you can skip the steps below and move on to [the next stage](#install-pomerium).

### Install mkcert

1. <InstallMkcert/>

1. Generate a wildcard certificate and key for Pomerium to use:

  ```sh
  mkcert "*.localhost.pomerium.io"
  ```

1. Add the certificate and key to the cluster as a Secret:

  ```sh
  kubectl create secret tls pomerium-wildcard-tls --namespace=pomerium \
    --cert="./_wilcard.localhost.pomerium.io.pem" --key="./_wilcard.localhost.pomerium.io-key.pem"
  ```

## Install Pomerium

> 1. Install the Pomerium deployment definition to your cluster:

Author: ```suggestion
1. Install Pomerium to your cluster:
```

  ```sh
  kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/pomerium/ingress-controller/main/deployment.yaml
  ```

  This will create all the components of Pomerium in the `pomerium` namespace, as well as a bootstrap secret:

  ```sh {3-14}

>   Warning: resource namespaces/pomerium is missing the kubectl.kubernetes.io/last-applied-configuration annotation which is required by kubectl apply. kubectl apply should only be used on resources created declaratively by either kubectl create --save-config or kubectl apply. The missing annotation will be patched automatically.

Author: Well I did. If my next clean run-through doesn't, I'll remove it.

>   Warning: resource namespaces/pomerium is missing the kubectl.kubernetes.io/last-applied-configuration annotation which is required by kubectl apply. kubectl apply should only be used on resources created declaratively by either kubectl create --save-config or kubectl apply. The missing annotation will be patched automatically.

Reviewer: this is a side effect of creating namespace at the earlier step.

  serviceaccount/pomerium-controller created
  serviceaccount/pomerium-gen-secrets created
  clusterrole.rbac.authorization.k8s.io/pomerium-controller created
  clusterrole.rbac.authorization.k8s.io/pomerium-gen-secrets created
  clusterrolebinding.rbac.authorization.k8s.io/pomerium-controller created
  clusterrolebinding.rbac.authorization.k8s.io/pomerium-gen-secrets created
  service/pomerium-metrics created
  service/pomerium-proxy created
  deployment.apps/pomerium created
  job.batch/pomerium-gen-secrets created
  ingressclass.networking.k8s.io/pomerium created
  ```

1. Define a Kubernetes secret to hold identity provider (**IdP**) credentials:

  ```yaml title=idp-secret.yaml
  apiVersion: v1
  kind: Secret
  metadata:
    name: idp
    namespace: pomerium
  type: Opaque
  stringData:
    client_id: ${IDP_PROVIDED_CLIENT_ID}
    client_secret: ${IDP_PROVIDED_CLIENT_SECRET}
  ```

  The data required in this secret will depend on your [identity provider]. See the [Kubernetes Reference](/docs/k8s/reference#identityprovider) page for all available keys, and cross-reference it with the requirements of your IdP.

> 1. Provide this secret to the cluster:

Author: Markdown iterates as needed as long as each numbered step is `1.`. That way we can add or remove steps without having to adjust the others.

  ```sh
  kubectl apply -f idp-secret.yaml
  ```

  You can confirm with `kubectl get secrets --namespace pomerium`:

  ```sh title=settings.yaml {4}
  NAME                               TYPE                                  DATA   AGE
  bootstrap                          Opaque                                3      99m
  default-token-whpnw                kubernetes.io/service-account-token   3      149m
  idp                                Opaque                                2      5s
  pomerium-controller-token-cckv5    kubernetes.io/service-account-token   3      99m
  pomerium-gen-secrets-token-4pdkd   kubernetes.io/service-account-token   3      99m

>   pomerium-tls-ca                    kubernetes.io/tls                     2      148m

Author: ```suggestion
```

>   ```

Author: I removed `pomerium-tls-ca`. It doesn't hurt to have the example command and output. I know we don't want to teach folks how to use kubernetes, but keeping this doesn't hurt those already in the know.

  - A namespace in the cluster for Pomerium. This document assumes the namespace `pomerium`, which you can create with `kubectl create namespace pomerium`.
- A configured [identity provider].
- A domain space. The steps below use `*.localhost.pomerium.io` as a placeholder value. We have set DNS records for this domain space to point to `127.0.0.1` (localhost), so you can use this domain space when testing Pomerium locally.
- [TLS certificates]. If you don't yet have a production environment with trusted certificates, this page will cover using [mkcert] to create locally trusted certificates.

## Certificates

This setup uses [mkcert] to generate certificates that are trusted by your local web browser for testing. If you already have a certificate solution, you can skip the steps below and move on to [the next stage](#install-pomerium).

### Install mkcert

1. <InstallMkcert/>

1. Generate a wildcard certificate and key for Pomerium to use:

  ```sh
  mkcert "*.localhost.pomerium.io"
  ```

1. Add the certificate and key to the cluster as a Secret:

  ```sh
  kubectl create secret tls pomerium-wildcard-tls --namespace=pomerium \

>     --cert="./_wilcard.localhost.pomerium.io.pem" --key="./_wilcard.localhost.pomerium.io-key.pem"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    --cert="./_wildcard.localhost.pomerium.io.pem" --key="./_wildcard.localhost.pomerium.io-key.pem"
```

  pomerium-controller-token-cckv5    kubernetes.io/service-account-token   3      99m
  pomerium-gen-secrets-token-4pdkd   kubernetes.io/service-account-token   3      99m
  ```

1. Define the global Pomerium settings:

  By default, Pomerium expects the configuration document `global`, which may be customized via command line arguments to the container, if necessary. 

  ```yaml title=pomerium.yaml
  apiVersion: ingress.pomerium.io/v1
  kind: Pomerium
  metadata:
    name: global
  spec:
    secrets: pomerium/bootstrap
    authenticate:
      url: https://authenticate.localhost.pomerium.io
    identityProvider:
      provider: ${YOUR_IdP}
      secret: pomerium/idp
    certificates:
      - pomerium/pomerium-wildcard-tls
  ```

1. Apply the global settings:

  ```sh
  kubectl apply -f pomerium.yaml
  ```

  The Pomerium Proxy service should now be running in your cluster:

  ```sh {3}
  kubectl get service pomerium-proxy
  NAME             TYPE           CLUSTER-IP   EXTERNAL-IP     PORT(S)                      AGE
  pomerium-proxy   LoadBalancer   10.24.7.1    198.51.100.228   443:31498/TCP,80:31437/TCP   10s

>   ```

Reviewer: Pomerium-proxy service is created from the very beginning, it just won't have endpoints until then. 
We should advise users to do `kubectl describe pomerium/global` to get Pomerium status.

  ```yaml title=verify-ingress.yaml
  apiVersion: networking.k8s.io/v1
  kind: Ingress
  metadata:
    name: verify
    annotations:
      ingress.pomerium.io/allowed_domains: |
        - example.com
      ingress.pomerium.io/pass_identity_headers: "true"
  spec:
    ingressClassName: pomerium
    rules:
      - host: "verify.localhost.pomerium.io"
        http:
          paths:
            - pathType: Prefix
              path: /
              backend:
                service:
                  name: verify
                  port:
                    number: 8000
  ```

  Note that we include the [annotation](/docs/k8s/ingress#supported-annotations) `infress.pomerium.io/pass_identity_headers`, which provides a [JWT](/docs/overview/glossary#json-web-token) to the Verify service.

  Deploy the service with `kubectl apply -f verify-ingress.yaml`, and visit the path in your browser:

  ![The top of the Pomerium Verify page](./img/verify-app.png)

  :::tip
  Identity verification fails because we're using an untrusted test certificate. Updating your deployment with a trusted certificate solution like Let's Encrypt through [cert-manager] will resolve this error.
  :::

## Next steps

> Once Pomerium is configured, you should configure [persistence](/docs/topics/data-storage#persistence). This prevents the loss of user sessions if the deployment is restarted, and supports replication for high availability. See our Kubernetes [Reference](/docs/k8s/reference#storage) page for more information on configuring Databroker storage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once Pomerium is configured, you should configure [persistence](/docs/topics/data-storage#persistence). This prevents the loss of user sessions if containers are restarted, and supports deployments with multiple replicas. See our Kubernetes [Reference](/docs/k8s/reference#storage) page for more information on configuring Databroker storage.
```

## Troubleshooting

> We've configured the Pomerium Deployment to provide all the information needed to manage and troubleshoot a deployment from the `describe` command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Pomerium posts events to the `Ingress` and `Pomerium` objects, which may be inspected accessible via `kubectl describe` command. 
```

Author: ```suggestion
Pomerium posts events to the `Ingress` and `Pomerium` objects, which may be inspected with the `kubectl describe` command:
```
